In this lecture, you'll learn about wireless network security.
It's going to be a pretty quick lecture because the Shishani Wambo, we don't need to go too deep into
the topic so Wi-Fi coverage can leak outside the desired area.
If you have got a building and you want to have wireless coverage throughout the entire building, you
will place your access points to give you the desired coverage.
But it's going to be next to impossible to have the wireless access available right up to the edges
of the building on the inside and not leak out to the outside of the building.
And also and stations joining the wireless network do not need physical access to join the network.
So this can obviously make it more vulnerable to attack than a wired network.
There could be an attacker sitting in their car outside in your car park and they could potentially
join the wireless network from there and get access the same as if they were inside the building.
So because of strong authentication and encryption techniques should definitely be used.
So let's talk about the wireless security standards, the first one was WAP, the wireless equivalent
privacy that came out in 1999 and got used RC for encryption.
WEAP was pretty quickly cracked.
You should never be using WAP nowadays because it is trivially easy to crack it and get access through
into the wireless network.
So after that, what came out next was WPA.
You'll find that with old security methods and standards, it's always a constant battle between the
people who are creating those standards and the hackers who are trying to circumvent them.
So what always happens is there will be a new security standard.
Hacker will then find a way to circumvent it and then a new security standard will come out which plugs
those holes.
An attacker will then figure out a way to crack that new standard and then a new standard of anot will
come out and then it just keeps going cyclically like that.
So that's why you can see here we've gone through Web, WPA, WPA to on WPA three.
So after WEAP WPA came out after that and did plug the security concerns which were present in weap
WPA stands for Wi-Fi protected access, the first version came out in two thousand on three, but still
uses Arcy for encryption, as was used in Web and introduced to the temporal key integrity protocol.
So after some time, WPA was also cracked.
So after the WPA took him out, WPA two came out in 2000 for it uses a yes encryption so that stronger
encryption than our for.
And it also supported Shishi and Pete Champy stands for the counter safer mode with block changing message
authentication code protocol.
It's a bit of a mouthful, OK.
And then after the WPA to WPA Free came out after that because there is an attack called the KROK attack,
which WPA too is susceptible to, to have a fix for that is WPA three.
It came out in twenty eighteen.
It also uses E.S. Encryption HWP to this.
It's got Shishi amp and it does have protection against the crack attack.
No, the current state of affairs, as I'm recording this video, is that WPA three is still comparatively
new, even though it has been out for a while.
You'll find that a lot of wireless devices out there still only support WPA to sort of devices are still
using WPA to any environment you're in.
Should be on at least WPA to preferably WPA.
As time goes on, more and more devices will support WPA three.
So that is what you really should be targeting to be running on.
Last thing to tell you about is a comparison between WPA personnel and WPA enterprise and personal and
enterprise.
It's not just the original version of WPA.
It was also WPA two and three.
This applies there as well.
So with WPA personnel, that uses pre shared keys.
So when you go to join the wireless network, you enter a picture Keeves, basically a password which
matches the password on the access point with WPA Enterprise that uses a triple A.
However, we spoke about it earlier on in the course Rothstein's for authentication, authorization
and accounting protocol that will be used for the authentication is radius and we're going to be using
one X and with WPA Enterprise, that gives you much more granularity.
You can have users and logging in with their username and password, so it gives you that user level
security.
So if a user does leave the company, it's very easy.
You just delete user and nobody can log in without username and password anymore.
You don't have to do anything different if you're using WIPA personal where you've got Boshier password.
If a user leaves the company, then you need to change it so it quickly becomes unmanageable in a corporate
environment.
So now if you're thinking, well, I'll definitely be using the enterprise.
When would I ever use WPA personnel, both home networks for your network at home?
You don't want to have the expense and complexity of having to use a server there and you don't need
the scalability it would give you.
So WPA personnel is used in personal networks.
In a corporate environment, you should be using WPA enterprise.
And once it's a really small environment, OK, that's everything I needed to tell you here, but covers
all of the theory of wireless networks now.
So starting.
In the next lecture, I'll start showing you how to configure them with eLab Daniel.